---
title: 'About WFB'
date: June 1, 2023
slug: 'about-wfb'
---

Working From Bed is a full-stack digital agency and product lab. Committed to helping new brands, entrepreneurs, artists, and creatives navigate life online. We're taking what we've learned through our own product wins and losses and using that to our clients' benefit.

Our development process is built on on modern and effective solutions, allowing for an iterative approach where curveballs are welcomed as much as expected. Our products are modular, scaleable, and performant. We're available for project work or on a consultation basis. We love helping companies and agencies update their development workflows.

### Having issues with your tech stack? [Send us an email](mailto:contact@workingfrombed.org) and let's see where WFB can help.

WFB specializes in person-first, data-driven digital strategy. We are fundamentally excited by people and what makes them tick. Whether its audience development or ecommece sales analysis, we've been using data to tell stories to brands for almost ten years now.

### Want to learn more about what makes your audience tick? [Let's Link](mailto:contact@workingfrombed.org)

Whether we're building an app, a website, or high-level audience outreach, WFB is always thinking at a 10,000 foot view. The process is agile (in the traditional sense of the word) and collaborative, working always towards concensus and trust.

Ultimately, what we do is about solving problems and understanding systems. If this sounds like something you need, then [do get in touch](mailto:contact@workingfrombed.org).
